OADP-1067: Design for Batching VSM CRs (#179)
migtools/volume-snapshot-mover: docs/design/batching.md

# Batching VolumeSnapshotMover Backups and Restores

## Summary
The VolumeSnapshotMover controller currently runs on each `volumeSnapshotBackup` 
and `volumeSnapshotRestore` until completed. The problem with this is that as 
the number of VolSync processes increases, the time for backup/restore to complete
can become slow, as diminishing returns increases.

## Performance Testing Results
[Performance testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPKo46_McEkj0Fu9hdkTxiVDnTh00forFQnscTgiEgg/edit?usp=sharing) 
found that there is an optimal batch number of 12 for backup. For restore, 
the results appear to be linear. 

## Motivation
Improve the performance of VolumeSnapshotMover backup and restore by allowing 
users to specify a batch number of `volumeSnapshotBackups` and 
`volumeSnapshotRestores` that can be simultaneously `inProgress` at once.

## Implementation details

> A configurable value, `dpa.spec.dataMover.batchNumber`, can be used to specify 

Reviewer: As discussed earlier today, we should split this into two parameters. Perhaps `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentBackupVolumes` and `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentRestoreVolumes`.

Reviewer: We should also note that a value of zero indicates no restriction on how many operations we will allow.

Reviewer: We should also have a default number defined in the code which will be used if the user doesn't make any preference. Value TBA -- it could be something like 10 or 12, or we could decide that the default is 0 (i.e. unlimited), but if we have consts defined for `DefaultConcurrentBackupVolumes` and `DefaultConcurrentRestoreVolumes`, then it will be easy to change default behavior later by just redefining the const (to 10 or 12 or whatever for a specific limit, or 0 for unlimited).

a number of `volumeSnapshotBackup` and `volumeSnapshotRestore` CRs that should 
be operated on at once. For example, given 100 PVs, a user may want to use 
VolumeSnapshotMover to backup 15 at a time for better performance. 

To implement this in the the VSM controller, we can keep track of the current 
number of VSBs/VSRs that are not yet completed. At the beginning of the reconcile, 
a counter can be incremented for each VSB/VSR that starts.  

> When this counter is equal to the batch number, then requeue. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this counter is equal to the batch number, then do not start another VSB/VSR processes. 
```

Reviewer: I think the requeue part is relevant too -- perhaps "requeue without starting another VSB/VSR process"?

Once a CR status changes to completed, this value will be decremented, and another
`volumeSnapshotBackup` or `volumeSnapshotRestore` can start.

If `dpa.spec.dataMover.batchNumber` is not set, then the controller will run as
it currently does, with each `volumeSnapshotBackup` and `volumeSnapshotRestore` 
until completed.

### DPA config:

```
...
spec:  
  features:  
    dataMover:  
      enable: true  
      credentialName: <dm-restic-secret-name>

>       batchNumber: 12

Reviewer: Split this into two values -- also I'm thinking a slight rename might make it clearer:
"concurrentBackupVolumes"/"concurrentRestoreVolumes" -- although those names are slightly unwieldy, they make the intent much clearer than "batchNumber"

...
```

## Alternate Design Ideas
- Batching for backup/restore in upstream Velero

>     - This approach may be too slow for OADP 1.2

Reviewer 2: Why?

Reviewer: I'm not sure what exactly is meant by "batching in upstream Velero" here. Would this require building VSB/VSR-specific logic into Velero itself?

Author: @sseago  I think I meant this at the CSI plugin level. Should've specified. Although since the main concern is VolSync processes, this is not relevant. Will remove.

# Batching VolumeSnapshotMover Backups and Restores

## Summary
The VolumeSnapshotMover controller currently runs on each `volumeSnapshotBackup` 
and `volumeSnapshotRestore` until completed. The problem with this is that as 
the number of VolSync processes increases, the time for backup/restore to complete
can become slow, as diminishing returns increases.

## Performance Testing Results
[Performance testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPKo46_McEkj0Fu9hdkTxiVDnTh00forFQnscTgiEgg/edit?usp=sharing) 
found that there is an optimal batch number of 12 for backup. For restore, 

> the results appear to be linear. 

Reviewer: I would clarify that the "12 is optimal" may only apply to a narrow set of assumptions, and there may be other scenarios where a different value is optimal.

`volumeSnapshotRestores` that can be simultaneously `inProgress` at once.

## Implementation details
Configurable values, `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentBackupVolumes` and 
`dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentRestoreVolumes`, can be used to specify 
a number of `volumeSnapshotBackup` and `volumeSnapshotRestore` CRs that should 
be operated on at once. For example, given 100 PVs, a user may want to use 
VolumeSnapshotMover to backup 15 at a time and restore 20 at a time for
improved performance. 

To implement this in the the VSM controller, we can keep track of the current 
number of `volumeSnapshotBackups` or `volumeSnapshotRestores` that are not yet 
completed. At the beginning of the reconcile, a counter can be incremented for 
each VSB/VSR that starts.  
When this counter is equal to the concurrentVolumes number, then requeue without 
starting another VSB/VSR process.   
Once a CR status changes to completed, this value will be decremented, and another
`volumeSnapshotBackup` or `volumeSnapshotRestore` can start.

If `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentBackupVolumes` or
`dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentRestoreVolumes` is not set or it is set to zero, 

> then a default value will be used. This value is TBD.

Reviewer: Hmm. I'm wondering how this would work if a user wants to set it to zero, meaning "no limit". For example, if the default is 12, then a user setting this to 0 will result in the default of 12 being used. Maybe we don't allow "no limit" -- but practically speaking, the user can still have "no limit" by setting it to 1000 or something similarly huge.

Reviewer: I guess one way to allow unlimited would be to implement the setting as an int pointer rather than an int -- that way we can distinguish between "not present; use default" (i.e. value is nil) and "unlimited" (value is 0; use this rather than default)" Thinking more about it, I'm leaning towards this. If we want "not specified" to mean "use the default" then we want the spec field to be `*int64` rather than `int64`, so that 0 won't be overridden by the default.

Author: I agree, this approach sounds more reasonable. Will update with these details.

> One option for a default value is to allow for unlimted `volumeSnapshotBackups` or 

Reviewer: s/unlimted/unlimited/

`volumeSnapshotRestores` if it is not set. Another option is to defing constants 
such as `DefaultConcurrentBackupVolumes` and `DefaultConcurrentRestoreVolumes` 
that can be set to a determined number, such as 0 or 12. More discussion is needed

> around this topic.

Reviewer: If `0` means "unlimited" then we don't really need to know which option we're using in the design -- when we decide the default value, then it's just a matter of assigning the const in the golang file. If the default is zero, then it's unlimited -- if it's another number, then it's limited to that.

# Batching VolumeSnapshotMover Backups and Restores

## Summary
The VolumeSnapshotMover controller currently runs on each `volumeSnapshotBackup` 
and `volumeSnapshotRestore` until completed. The problem with this is that as 
the number of VolSync processes increases, the time for backup/restore to complete
can become slow, as diminishing returns increases.

## Performance Testing Results

> [Performance testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPKo46_McEkj0Fu9hdkTxiVDnTh00forFQnscTgiEgg/edit?usp=sharing) 

Reviewer 3: Probably worth noting this isn't due to any controller or volsync performance, but rather the bandwidth restrictions of data being egressed from the cluster.

found that there is an optimal batch number of 12 for backup. For restore, 
the results appear to be linear. 
- It is important to note that these results are
from a small set of factors such a CephFS and Ceph RBD, as well as small
volume sizes. It is possible for this number to change with different scenarios.

## Motivation
Improve the performance of VolumeSnapshotMover backup and restore by allowing 
users to specify a concurrent number of `volumeSnapshotBackups` and 
`volumeSnapshotRestores` that can be simultaneously `inProgress` at once.

## Implementation details
Configurable *int64 values, `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentBackupVolumes` and 

> `dpa.spec.dataMover.concurrentRestoreVolumes`, can be used to specify 

Reviewer 3: I'm not picky on names, but wondering if this should be `maxConcurrentVolumeBackups` or something to indicate it is the maximum number of allowable running backups

a number of `volumeSnapshotBackup` and `volumeSnapshotRestore` CRs that should 
be operated on at once. For example, given 100 PVs, a user may want to use 
VolumeSnapshotMover to backup 15 at a time and restore 20 at a time for
improved performance. 

> To implement this in the the VSM controller, we can keep track of the current 

Reviewer 4: @eemcmullan Can you please elaborate more on how are we gonna keep track of the VSBs/VSRs ? Will it be the case that we will be making List calls to the kube api server whenever the controller receives a reconcile event ? And then from this List we will look at the status of each VSB/VSR CRs  ? Won't this degrade the controller performance ? I may be missing something and be totally wrong here. Let me know your thoughts on this.

Author: @dymurray @shawn-hurley if possible, I would appreciate thoughts on this matter. Thanks in advance

Reviewer 5: Rather than keeping track of a counter, I would do a lookup in the cache for all the ones that are in progress.

Reviewer 3: +1, I think in previous discussions we weren't sure if the list call was cached, if it is I think that is absolutely the right move.

Reviewer 4: makes sense, let go ahead with list call + queue approach
